hey this is pressure Walker I'm thinking
of a 10 digit number that uses each of
the digits 0 to 9 exactly once and the
first n digits of the number are
divisible by n what could my number be
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video there are
names for the properties of this number
a poly divisible number has the first n
digits that are divisible by n a
pandigital number uses each of the
digits from 0 to 9
this puzzle is asking for poly divisible
number that is also pain digital you
could write a computer program to run
through all the possible numbers which
will be over 3 million possibilities in
this video we're going to solve the
problem using mathematical logic and
reduce this down to only 10
possibilities using the rules of
divisibility to get started we need the
ten digit number to be divisible by ten
this forces the last digit to be zero
next we want the first five digits to be
divisible by five this means the fifth
digit has to be zero or five since we've
already used the digit zero this means
the fifth digit has to be five just from
these two digits we've already reduced
the number of possibilities to a little
over 40000 let's continue
we'll now consider that the first two
digits are divisible by two the first
four digits are divisible by four the
first six digits are divisible by six
and the first eight digits are divisible
by eight in other words the first n
digits where n is even are divisible by
even numbers so that means there must be
even numbers in the even spots I'll
denote this by a blue rectangle
furthermore we have exactly four even
numbers remaining to be placed in four
spots that means these four spots will
use up all the remaining even numbers
therefore the remaining spots in the odd
numbers must be odd digits now let's
consider the first four numbers
we need this to be divisible by four the
divisibility rule is that the last two
digits of the number have to be
divisible by four we also know that the
first digit has to be odd but it is not
the digit five which is already used so
which two digit numbers satisfy this
property we can start counting up from
zero and look for two digit numbers that
are multiples of four with this property
there are only eight cases to consider
and there's a pattern in these cases the
last digit of the number is either a two
or a six so that means this tentative
number must have the fourth digit equal
to two or six will write out two
different possibilities now we're going
to figure out the sixth digit we know
that the first three digits are
divisible by three so that means the sum
of the first three digits is a multiple
of three the first six digits must be
divisible by six that means they must
also be divisible by three and therefore
the first six digits must also have a
sum that's a multiple of three now since
the first three digits have a sum that's
a multiple of three this can only happen
if also the fourth fifth and six digits
also have a sum that's a multiple of
three so let's consider the fourth fifth
and sixth digit if we have two plus five
that gets us to seven now we need to use
one of the even numbers that's remaining
to get to a multiple of three we can't
use four or six but the number eight
would work seven plus eight is 15 which
is a multiple of three six plus five is
equal to 11 we need to use one of the
remaining even numbers to get to a
multiple of three we can simply conclude
this digit would have to be four now
let's consider the first eight digits of
the number this needs to be divisible by
8 which means the last three digits have
to be divisible by 8 so we want to look
at numbers in the 800s and the 400s we
also know that
the middle digit has to be odd but not
equal to five and we can't use one of
the even numbers we've already used so
we could start counting from 800 and go
up multiples of eight see which numbers
satisfy this property we do the same
thing for the 400s there are only a few
cases that could possibly have an odd
number in the middle and it doesn't use
one of the even numbers it's already
remaining in the case of the 800s we've
we can't have a 32 or 872 because we've
already used the number two in two five
eight so we remove a couple
possibilities there similarly for the
400s we have to remove the digit 6
because 654 already uses the digit six
so this leaves us with two numbers in
the 800s and two numbers in the 400s so
we put those in we have four total
possibilities for our number so we've
actually filled in a lot of digits to
this number we even fill in one more
digit we have exactly one even number
that's remaining this has to be the last
even digit in the first two cases
that'll be four and in the last two
cases that'll be eight now we have
exactly three digits remaining in our
number these will be odd digits in the
first case it'll be 379 then 137 then
179 and finally 1 3 9 so how can we
reduce the number of possibilities
further well we need the first three
digits to be divisible by 3
so the sum of the first three digits has
to be a multiple 3 if we look at our
first case we have something for
something and we need to have 3 7 or 9
in these places we can try to figure out
sums which have 4 in the middle that'll
get us to a multiple 3 none of these are
going to work so this entire case can be
removed we will never get something that
will satisfy the property we want let's
look at the next case we have 1 3 & 7 &
4 in the middle so 1 plus 4 plus 7 is
equal to 12 which is a multiple of 3 so
we could have 147 or 7 41
we'll do the same thing for the next
case we have the digits 1 7 and 9 now
there are a couple of sums that get us
to a multiple three so that leads to
four different possibilities for the
numbers the final case is similar there
are two possibilities to get to a
multiple three which leads to four
different cases so we have four plus
four plus two which is a total of ten
different numbers so we've reduced this
from over three million numbers to check
and there are only ten possible numbers
that this could be now which number is
the answer well we still need the first
seven digits to be divisible by seven so
you could check the first seven digits
divided by seven see which one's visible
and there's only one number that works
this is three billion eight hundred and
sixteen million five hundred and forty
seven thousand two hundred ninety and
that's our answer did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch me on
my blog mind your decisions which you
can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me on social media
app brushed all occur and you like this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description